1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:
a.  MAKING COFFEE

     FUNCTION makingCoffee()
      PUT Coffee beans into the coffee compartiment
         IF machine has no water
         ADD water
      ELSE 
        PLACE a cup for coffee
        PRESS start button
        WAIT until the cup is filled with coffee
        REMOVE cup from machine
       IF you repeat the process 
		LEAVE coffee maker ON
   ELSE
      TURN OFF the coffee machine     
     END FUNCTION

b. WASHING DISHES:

      FUNCTION washingDishesDishwasher()

        GET dishwasher soap 
        PUT  dishwasher soap into dishwasher
        FOR EACH dirty dish on counter 
          Scrape rest of food into garbage
        END FOR 
        WHILE there are dirty dishes on counter
          Place dirty dishes in the dishwasher 
        END WHILE
          TURN on dishwasher     
     END FUNCTION

c. A choice of your own:	

 FUNCTION makingAvocadoToast()
	GET plate
	GET  avocado
        IF avocado not cut
          GET a knife and CUT avocado
        END IF

	PLACE avocado on the plate
	GET slices of bread
	PUT bread in the toaster
	START toaster
	WHEN toaster is off remove bread from toaster
	PLACE bread on the plate
	SPREAD avocado on bread with the knife
  END FUNCTION
     

2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

 	- Netflix: their Recommendations System works putting together data collected from different places- takes into consideration viewing history; rated titles; how long you watch; the time of the day you're watching; 
	- Tesla cars- energy battery algorithm Energy Usage Prediction:“The calculation is an estimate based on driving style (predicted speed, etc.) and environmental factors (elevation changes, weather, etc.).”"That’s the calculation that is going to predict your Tesla’s state of charge at a destination and suggest charging stops if needed."
	- Uber dispatch algorithm runs their models on the driver's side based on 3 possible states: Stationary (Uber drivers leave their cars parked/waiting until they get a ping), Random Drive and Demand gravity (the drivers go towards the areas with reliable high demand) 

	- Facebook  - the algorithm collects data => what the user is interested in (browsing, comments, likes, sharing, etc) => next it tailors specific marketing toward that person based on their interests and hobbies.

3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.
 - An efficient algorithm will minimize resource usage, will value speed and accuracy above everything ; also, it will be easy to understand;

